     
     Chapter 02 Worksheet

     
     
  1. Give an example of a binary number. (While a number such as ``1'' can be a
     binary, decimal, and hexadecimal number, try coming up with an example that
     better illustrates the differences between the different bases of numbers.)

     001
     
  2. Give an example of a decimal number.

  213
  
  3. Give an example of a hexadecimal number.

  010
  
  4. Convert the numbers 1, 10, 100, 1000, and 10000 from binary to decimal.

  1, 2, 8, 16
  
  5. What is a compiler?

  a program thats written in a certain language and turns it into a code that the computer processor uses
  
  6. What is source code?

  commands that make up an executable computer program
  
  7. What is machine language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)

  a programming language that uses binary or hexadecimal instructions that the computer can read directly
  
  8. What is a first generation language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)

  Altair 8800b
  
  9. What is a second generation language?

  assembly language
  
 10. What is a third generation language? (Explain, don't just give one example.)

 COBOL, third gen languages use a compiler to turn the source code into machine code
 
 11. What is an interpreter and how does it differ from a compiler?

 interpreters interpret source code into machine language instantly
 
 12. Search the web and find some of the most popular programming languages.
     List the website(s) you got the information from and what the languages are.

     Jave
     Python
     C
     Ruby
     Javascript
     C#
     PHP
     https://www.inc.com/larry-kim/10-most-popular-programming-languages-today.html
     
 13. Look at the job boards and see what languages people are looking for.
     List the languages and the job board you looked at.

     People are looking for a lot of languages but the most popular ones are python and Javascript
     https://stackoverflow.com/jobs
     
     
 14. What is the difference between the ``syntax'' and ``semantics'' of a
     language?

 15. Pick a piece of technology, other than a computer you use regularly. Briefly
     describe the hardware and software that run on it.

     car
     
     Hardware: Wheels, seats, Steering wheel, Mirrors, etc.
     
     Software: The software in a car is made for the speedomater, windshield wipers, and so much more
     
